docs: Glossary for Technical Terms (#13866)
hashgraph/hedera-services: docs/glossary.md

- [Auto Associations](#asynchronous)
- [Auto-Renew Accounts](#auto-renew-accounts)
- [Address Book](#address-book)
- [Application Accounts](#application-accounts)

## B
- [BLS](#bls)
- [Block Proof](#block-proof)
- [Block Signature](#block-signature)
- [Block Stream](#block-stream)

## C
- [Civilian Accounts](#civilian-accounts)
- [Config.txt](#config.txt)
- [Congestion Pricing](#congestion-pricing)
- [Consensus Time](#consensus-time)

## D
- [Delegate Call](#delegate-call)

## E
- [EOA](#eoa)

## H
- [Hollow Accounts](#hollow-accounts)

## L
- [Leaky Tests](#leaky-tests)

## P
- [Precompiles](#precompiles)

## S
- [Security Model V2](#security-model-v2)
- [Sidecars](#sidecars)
- [Synthetic Transaction](#synthetic-transactions)
- [System Contracts](#system-contracts)
- [System Transaction](#system-transaction)

## T
- [Token Allowance](#token-allowance)

## W
- [Weibar](#weibar)

---

## Address Book
**Address Book**: The _**network**_ address book is data structure that contains information (such as node ID, alias, IP address, and weight) for all nodes in the network, 
not just consensus, but also block nodes, future validator nodes and more.

> The address book is stored as a file on disk at the moment but will be stored purely in state as part of Dynamic Address Book phase 3.	Disambiguation: There is also an "address book" in files 0.0.101 and 0.0.102 which is different to the "network address book" which are manually managed by devops.

Reviewer: I am not sure the community understands what "dynamic address book phase 3" means. I don't think we have a HIP yet for that. I guess maybe when it becomes available we could link it for reference. Maybe we should define what a "Dynamic Address Book" is and link to that. 

Suggestion:

**Dynamic Address Book**: The envisioned state where the system can create, update, or delete nodes in the address book through Hedera transactions. In this future state, rather than manually updating nodes during predefined upgrade periods, the address book can be managed in real-time with the following transaction types:

[NodeCreate](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-protobufs/blob/main/services/node_create.proto): Adds a new node to the address book.
[NodeUpdate](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-protobufs/blob/main/services/node_update.proto): Modifies the details of an existing node.
[NodeDelete](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-protobufs/blob/main/services/node_delete.proto): Removes a node from the address book.

The actions of the transactions will still take effect at the node upgrade window [if I understood correctly].

> The address book is stored as a file on disk at the moment but will be stored purely in state as part of Dynamic Address Book phase 3.	Disambiguation: There is also an "address book" in files 0.0.101 and 0.0.102 which is different to the "network address book" which are manually managed by devops.

Author: > These might work better as definition lists, by the way. Here's an example (the spacing was off also, so it's a good example).

Thanks @jsync-swirlds. I will implement this formatting in a separate PR 👍 

> I am not sure the community understands what "dynamic address book phase 3" means. I don't think we have a HIP yet for that. I guess maybe when it becomes available we could link it for reference. Maybe we should define what a "Dynamic Address Book" is and link to that.

Good suggestion, have added. Thanks @SimiHunjan.

> The address book is stored as a file on disk at the moment but will be stored purely in state as part of Dynamic Address Book phase 3.	Disambiguation: There is also an "address book" in files 0.0.101 and 0.0.102 which is different to the "network address book" which are manually managed by devops.

Author: Will address styling, formatting and definition lists in a future PR

## Account Aliases

> **Account Aliases**: These are identifiers which are public key values, and are mostly 33 byte EVM address values. The "triplet" form (e.g. 0.0.18273892) is the simpler and easier to "type".

Reviewer 2: The aliases can be protobuf serialized keys of ED25519 or ECDSA Keys or EVM address

Reviewer 3: That's correct, there are more options than just a public key.

An EVM address is a 20 byte keccak-256 of the ECDSA account key.
The "synthetic" EVM address (built from the account ID) is a bit weird as it's not stored as an alias, but can be used in the alias field of the `AccountID` message.
That bit of semantic gymnastics is courtesy of wanting EVM addresses but not wanting to implement the multiple-EVM-address features in HIP-631.

Probably way too much for a "glossary" (and not yet final or published), but there is good detail [here](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-protobufs/blob/pbj-storage-spec-review/documents/api/services/basic_types.md#proto-AccountID)

An alias is not intended to be user-friendly, but instead to offer a smart-contract friendly identifier. See https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-32 and https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-583 for more information.

## Admin Transaction 
**Admin Transaction**: A HAPI transaction which has been signed by the council, for example a Freeze Transaction

> 

Reviewer: Suggestion:

A HAPI transaction requires the transaction fee payer to be a privileged system account authorized to handle admin transactions. A privileged system account is defined as an account with an entity ID of 0.0.1000 or lower. Each type of admin transaction specifies which accounts can serve as authorized transaction fee payers. Regular users in the community are not permitted to authorize these types of transactions. Some privileged accounts, like account 0.0.2 or 0.0.58, are owned by the Hedera Council. This means their keys are on the account and their signatures would be required if the account is being modified or used to pay for admin transactions. 

Examples of Admin Transactions include the following:
- Freeze Transactions
- System Delete
- System Undelete 
- Address Book File 0.0.101/102 updates
- Exchange Rate File 0.0.111 updates
- Dynamic Properties File 0.0.121 updates

Not sure if this is too much. Feel free to edit as you see fit.

## Application Accounts
**Application Accounts:** Used by developers and users interacting with applications deployed on Hedera. These accounts enable users to interact with the functionality provided by dApps, such as gaming, finance, or other decentralized services.

## Auto Associations
**Auto Associations**: The ability of accounts to automatically associate with tokens. An auto association is one or more slots you approve that allow tokens to be sent to your contract or account without explicit authorization for each token type. If this property is not set, you must approve each token manually (via the `TokenAssociateTransaction` in the SDKs) before it can be received, held, or sent by that account.
https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-904 - currently in progress, will represent a significant change which allows for the number of "automatic association" slots to be set to -1 which represents infinite slots.

## Auto-Renew Accounts

> **Auto-Renew Accounts**: A feature designed to automatically renew the lifecycle of certain entities (like accounts, files, smart contracts, topics, or tokens) by funding their renewal fees. This feature is particularly useful for entities that require continuous operation over long periods, as it automates the process of keeping these entities active by periodically charging a linked auto-renew account. 

Reviewer 2: > A feature designed to automatically renew the lifecycle of certain entities
If we are describing feature we should probably just say `AutoRenewal`

Author: Thanks @Neeharika-Sompalli 🎉 Fixed it

## Block Proof
**Block Proof**: Cryptographic proof that a particular block contains a given block item. Block proofs will also be the basis of State Proofs as the root hash of states will be included in each block. see

## Block Signature
**Block Signature**: Aggregated (BLS) signature of the hash of Block stream merkle root. Appended to the end of a block stream it is used to verify the block was produced by the majority weight of the network. These signatures will also be used for Invalid State Detection.

## Block Stream
**Block Stream**: A fully verifiable stream of data consisting of individual blocks corresponding to consensus rounds. Each block contains all events, transactions, and state changes that occurred within one consensus round. A block is transmitted from consensus node to block nodes as a stream of individual block items, which form a merkle tree that is verified by a Block Signature. Each block is connected to the previous block by a Block Hash which, together form a block chain.

---

## Child Transaction

> **Child Transaction**: A [Synthetic Transaction](#synthetic-transactions) that the EVM or Services initiates as a result of fulfilling a user-initiated transaction (e.g. [Hollow Accounts](#hollow-accounts) creation, or a scheduled execution).

Reviewer 2: nit: We can add auto-account creation also as example.

## Civilian Accounts
**Civilian Accounts**:  User accounts that are not associated with any special roles or permissions beyond standard user functionality. These are mostly used for testing purposes. By contrast, System Accounts and Node Accounts are accounts that have specific roles and responsibilities within the infrastructure and governance of the Hedera network.

## Config.txt
**Config.txt**: A text file loaded by the platform on startup if no valid state is found on disk. This file contains the address book to use when starting from genesis.

## Congestion Pricing
**Congestion Pricing**: A mechanism designed to manage network congestion by dynamically adjusting transaction fees based on network demand. The primary goal of congestion pricing is to discourage excessive network usage during peak times. Refer to [Congestion Pricing](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-services/blob/develop/hedera-node/docs/fees/automated-congestion-pricing.md) and [Fees](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-services/blob/develop/hedera-node/docs/design/app/fees.md).

## Consensus Time

> **Consensus Time**: The timestamp assigned to a transaction once it has reached consensus across the network. This timestamp indicates the moment when the network agrees on the order and validity of the transaction, ensuring that all participants have a consistent view of the transaction sequence. See [Consensus Service](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-services/blob/develop/hedera-node/docs/design/services/consensus-service/consensus-service.md) for more information.

Reviewer 2: Consensus Service is not related to Consensus timestamp. Consensus timestamp is assigned by platform

---

## Delegate Call
**Delegate Call**: Used to call a function in another contract, but with the context of the calling contract. This allows for the execution of functions in one contract as if they were part of another but retains the original caller’s context (msg.sender and msg.value). See [Delegate Call](https://medium.com/@solidity101/understanding-call-delegatecall-and-staticcall-primitives-in-ethereum-smart-contracts-dfff21caa727) for more information.
 
---

## EOA

> **EOA (Externally Owned Accounts)**: Accounts that are controlled by private keys and are not associated with smart contracts. These accounts are used to send and receive transactions on the network and interact with smart contracts. In contrast to contract accounts or token accounts, EOAs are typically owned by individual users and are used to manage their assets and participate in the network.

Reviewer 2: You can mention they are #civilian-accounts or #Application-accounts previously mentioned

---

> ## Hollow Accounts

Reviewer 2: We can add Auto-Creation as a section also, since we mentioned it 🙂 . Need not be in the same PR.

> **Hollow Accounts**: An account that has been created with an account number and alias but lacks an account key. This term is specifically used to describe accounts generated through the Auto Account Creation feature, which allows applications to create user accounts instantly, even without an internet connection, by assigning an account alias. See also [Account Aliases](#account-aliases), https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-32 and https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-583. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Hollow Accounts**: An account that has been created with an account number and alias but lacks an account key. This term is specifically used to describe accounts generated through the Auto Account Creation feature when the alias is a EVM address, which allows applications to create user accounts instantly, even without an internet connection, by assigning an account alias. See also [Account Aliases](#account-aliases), https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-32 and https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-583. 
```

## Synthetic Transaction
**Synthetic Transaction**: Any transaction that is neither submitted through HAPI nor created by the platform. An example of which is the the deletion of an expired entity that did not pay rent. It is any transaction that shows up in the record stream that was not directly submitted by a user. Furthermore, it will have a non-zero nonce OR scheduled=true in its TransactionID. Note: the fact that we have a scheduled flag instead of just a non-zero nonce for scheduled transactions is for legacy reasons.

## System Contracts
**System Contracts**:  Smart contracts that have a permanent address in the network, meaning they will always be available at the same contract address. One example is the Token Service System Contract which allows smart contracts on Hedera to interact with the Hedera Token Service, offering functionalities like token creation, burning, and minting through the EVM

## System Transaction
**System Transaction**: A transaction created by the platform (not services) software. An example of which is a node's signature on a state. Inside an event, every transaction has a flag saying whether it is a system transaction or not.

> admin transaction-a HAPI transaction signed by the council. Such as freeze.

Reviewer 2: We can delete admin transaction here. I think we mentioned already in this file

---

## Token Allowance
**Token Allowance**: A feature that allows an account (the owner) to authorize another account (the spender) to transfer tokens on its behalf up to a specified limit. This mechanism is similar to the ERC-20 allowance mechanism used in Ethereum.

> The amount of tokens that a user has authorized a smart contract to spend on their behalf. This allowance is set by the user and can be modified or revoked at any time. It allows smart contracts to spend tokens on behalf of the user without requiring explicit approval for each transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The amount of tokens that a user has authorized another user or smart contract to spend on their behalf. This allowance is set by the user and can be modified or revoked at any time. It allows the spender to spend tokens on behalf of the owner without requiring explicit approval for each transaction.
```

- [Auto Associations](#asynchronous)
- [Auto-Renew Accounts](#auto-renew-accounts)
- [Address Book](#address-book)
- [Application Accounts](#application-accounts)

## B
- [BLS](#bls)
- [Block Proof](#block-proof)
- [Block Signature](#block-signature)
- [Block Stream](#block-stream)

## C
- [Civilian Accounts](#civilian-accounts)
- [Config.txt](#config.txt)
- [Congestion Pricing](#congestion-pricing)
- [Consensus Time](#consensus-time)

## D
- [Delegate Call](#delegate-call)

## E
- [EOA](#eoa)

## H
- [Hollow Accounts](#hollow-accounts)

## L
- [Leaky Tests](#leaky-tests)

## P
- [Precompiles](#precompiles)

## S
- [Security Model V2](#security-model-v2)
- [Sidecars](#sidecars)
- [Synthetic Transaction](#synthetic-transactions)
- [System Contracts](#system-contracts)
- [System Transaction](#system-transaction)

## T
- [Token Allowance](#token-allowance)

## W
- [Weibar](#weibar)

---

## Address Book
**Address Book**: The _**network**_ address book is data structure that contains information (such as node ID, alias, IP address, and weight) for all nodes in the network, 
not just consensus, but also block nodes, future validator nodes and more.

> The address book is stored as a file on disk at the moment but will be stored purely in state as part of Dynamic Address Book phase 3.	Disambiguation: There is also an "address book" in files 0.0.101 and 0.0.102 which is different to the "network address book" which are manually managed by devops.

Reviewer 3: Just a note, your spacing is still off here (there's a tab in place of a space after the first sentence).
Tip: setting your tab width in github to 16 makes tabs super easy to spot.

Author: Thanks @jsync-swirlds. I have opened a separate issue https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-services/issues/14016 to address

---

## Security Model V2

**Security Model v2**: Hedera introduced the HSCS Security Model v2 to enhance the security of its
network building with improved features to better safeguard against potential vulnerabilities and
attacks. By incorporating enhanced cryptographic techniques, robust consensus mechanisms,
decentralized governance, and continuous monitoring.
Key features include - Restrictions on Smart contracts Storage; Prohibition on Delegate Calls to
System Smart Contracts; Limited Access to EOAs' Storage; Token Allowance Requirement for Balance
Changes.
Refer to
this [official blog post](https://hedera.com/blog/hedera-smart-contract-service-security-model-update)
for more information.

## Sidecars

**Sidecars**: In Services, a sidecar refers to additional records that are created alongside the
main transaction records. These sidecar records provide more detailed information about the
transactions, making it easier to debug and understand the state changes that occur as a result of
the transactions. Note that these are related to the current record stream implementation and will
be replaced by block streams in the future.

> ## Synthetic Transaction

Reviewer 4: Unfortunately my previous comment to you was wrong.  This definition is true but is partial, it turns out that all "Child Transactions" are considered "Synthetic Transactions" too.
